README.md, before:

# Landmarks
### By Chelsea Thompto

*Landmarks* is an exploration of the ways artificial intelligence, and specifically facial recognition, fails to comprehend trans bodies (misgendering) and the threat this failure possesses to trans livelihood as these technologies become increasingly integrated into our daily lives. The work consists of an interactive website featuring compositions that explore these issues. 

This site is under constant construction and revision and will be open for viewing and engagement as it grows and takes on new forms, content, and ideas. The intention in doing so is to invite the viewers into the act of coding and to resist a static form. This constant revision/evolution can also be understood as performance art through the medium of code. 

*Landmarks* asks us to consider how technology sees us and what happens when it fails to see us for who we are?

Find out more [about my work](https://www.chelsea.technology).

To view the live site next to the code, click the "Show" dropdown on the top left of this page and select "Next to The Code".

(Note: while the work currently exists in this semi-ephemeral online state, I am actively looking for opportunities to bring a version(s) of this work into physical spaces as well.)


## Site Guide
Below is a breakdown of the project files and their purpose.

### ← README.md

This file, which contains an explanation of the project at large and the files within.

### ← index.html

Cover compostion, my questions/explroations with live facial recognition using [face-api.js](https://github.com/justadudewhohacks/face-api.js/).

### ← stages.html

Second composition of the project, featuring text and a 4 panel interactive visual. Thinking about the steps and trajectories of the technology.

### ← empire.html

Third composition of the project, featuring text by Jorge Luis Borges and Sandy Stone. Getting to the landmark metaphor: thinking of facial recognition as mapping and the body as a landscape.

### ← machine.html

Forth composition of the project, featuring still image facial recognition, studio shot photos, and AI generated faces. Considering how gender can be expressed to a machine and what machines say to one another.

### ← rote.html

(Currently in Development) The fifth composition. This page will invite viewers to explore landmark detection by inviting them to manually execute the process on an image of their choosing. 

### ← style.css

Styling for all pages.

### ← ~~style2.css~~

(Deprecated) ~~Styling for stages.html, will eventually be folded into a single style sheet.~~

### ← ~~style3.css~~

(Deprecated) ~~Styling for empire.html, will eventually be folded into a single style sheet.~~

### ← ~~style4.css~~

(Deprecated) ~~Styling for machine.html, will eventually be folded into a single style sheet.~~

### ← script.js

Main script handling the webcam and facial recognition functions.

### ← script2.js

Script handling the webcam and facial recognition functions on stages.html

### ← script3.js

Script handing the webcam and facial recognition function on empire.html

### ← script4.js

Script handing the still image facial recognition function on machine.html


## Development Notes/Goals/Ideas/Issues

- Code is currently all over the place and not well organized, allowing it to remain messy as the pages and compositions grow.

- Planning to add at least 1 more compositions based on live webcam feedback while also shifting focus slightly to still image recognition and some 3D model integrations.

- On deck Landmarks of the landscape and of the body - exploring this metaphor through ... ?

- Formatting is wonky because I am pushing and pulling the compositions around based on my screen. Once things are finalized a bit more I will recode to be mobile-friendly and more compatible but for now it will remain a little lumpy in places. I kinda like it that way.


## Theory and Inspiration
This work is part of a larger body of research considering the role “modeling” has played in medical, scientific, computational, and military projects aimed at categorizing and developing subjects inherently resistant to fixity (trans people, rivers, and etc.). 

*Landmarks* is a continuation of the work started in my projects [*Productive Bodies*](https://www.chelseathompto.com/productive-bodies) and [*Transcode Manifesto*](https://www.chelseathompto.com/transcode-manifesto) and is also inspired by Sandy Stone's [THE *EMPIRE* STRIKES BACK: A POSTTRANSSEXUAL MANIFESTO](https://sandystone.com/empire-strikes-back.pdf), Dark Inquiry’s [Rhetorical Software](https://thenewinquiry.com/dark-inquiry/), Legacy Russell’s [*Glitch Feminism*](https://www.versobooks.com/books/3668-glitch-feminism), and others. 


## Credits
This project is made possible with the following

[Laboratory Residency](https://residency.laboratoryspokane.com/) for providing space/time and finanical support in the form of a digital artist residency.

[Glitch](https://glitch.com/) for hosting and editing the code.

[face-api.js](https://github.com/justadudewhohacks/face-api.js/) for live webcam facial recognition.

Commit message:

😚🐺 Server Addition Update Swiping Changes to Folder Structure

README.md, after:

# Landmarks
### By Chelsea Thompto

*Landmarks* is an exploration of the ways artificial intelligence, and specifically facial recognition, fails to comprehend trans bodies (misgendering) and the threat this failure possesses to trans livelihood as these technologies become increasingly integrated into our daily lives. The work consists of an interactive website featuring compositions that explore these issues. 

This site is under constant construction and revision and will be open for viewing and engagement as it grows and takes on new forms, content, and ideas. The intention in doing so is to invite the viewers into the act of coding and to resist a static form. This constant revision/evolution can also be understood as performance art through the medium of code. 

*Landmarks* asks us to consider how technology sees us and what happens when it fails to see us for who we are?

Find out more [about my work](https://www.chelsea.technology).

To view the live site next to the code, click the "Show" dropdown on the top left of this page and select "Next to The Code".

(Note: while the work currently exists in this semi-ephemeral online state, I am actively looking for opportunities to bring a version(s) of this work into physical spaces as well.)


## Site Guide
Below is a breakdown of the project files and their purpose.

### ← README.md

This file, which contains an explanation of the project at large and the files within.

### ← package.json

This file handles the server information and its dependencies.

### ← server.js

Script running server side, handling interactions with the client and serving pages.

### ← index.html

Cover compostion, my questions/explroations with live facial recognition using [face-api.js](https://github.com/justadudewhohacks/face-api.js/).

### ← stages.html

Second composition of the project, featuring text and a 4 panel interactive visual. Thinking about the steps and trajectories of the technology.

### ← empire.html

Third composition of the project, featuring text by Jorge Luis Borges and Sandy Stone. Getting to the landmark metaphor: thinking of facial recognition as mapping and the body as a landscape.

### ← machine.html

Forth composition of the project, featuring still image facial recognition, studio shot photos, and AI generated faces. Considering how gender can be expressed to a machine and what machines say to one another.

### ← rote.html

(Currently in Development) The fifth composition. This page will invite viewers to explore landmark detection by inviting them to manually execute the process on an image of their choosing. 

### ← style.css

Styling for all pages.

### ← script.js

Main script handling the webcam and facial recognition functions.

### ← script2.js

Script handling the webcam and facial recognition functions on stages.html

### ← script3.js

Script handing the webcam and facial recognition function on empire.html

### ← script4.js

Script handing the still image facial recognition function on machine.html

### ← drawingapp.js

Script for creating in browser drawing tool used on rote.html.


## Development Notes/Goals/Ideas/Issues

- Update - 3/30: Just went from a static site to a node.js server. This will allow me to write and host an in-browser drawing allplication for people to manually explore facial recognition. It will also allow me to invite people to submit their drawings.

- On deck Landmarks of the landscape and of the body - exploring this metaphor through ... ?


## Theory and Inspiration
This work is part of a larger body of research considering the role “modeling” has played in medical, scientific, computational, and military projects aimed at categorizing and developing subjects inherently resistant to fixity (trans people, rivers, and etc.). 

*Landmarks* is a continuation of the work started in my projects [*Productive Bodies*](https://www.chelseathompto.com/productive-bodies) and [*Transcode Manifesto*](https://www.chelseathompto.com/transcode-manifesto) and is also inspired by Sandy Stone's [THE *EMPIRE* STRIKES BACK: A POSTTRANSSEXUAL MANIFESTO](https://sandystone.com/empire-strikes-back.pdf), Dark Inquiry’s [Rhetorical Software](https://thenewinquiry.com/dark-inquiry/), Legacy Russell’s [*Glitch Feminism*](https://www.versobooks.com/books/3668-glitch-feminism), and others. 


## Credits
This project is made possible with the following

[Laboratory Residency](https://residency.laboratoryspokane.com/) for providing space/time and finanical support in the form of a digital artist residency.

[Glitch](https://glitch.com/) for hosting and editing the code.

[face-api.js](https://github.com/justadudewhohacks/face-api.js/) for live webcam facial recognition.
